# Toll-system-using-automatic-numberplate-detection
Number Plate Recognition system is a security system. Image processing concept is used in Number Plate Recognition system. OCR (Optical Character Recognition) scheme is also applied in this for reading the image of vehicle number plate. The Toll System using Automatic Number Plate Recognition system is a security system. Image processing concept is used in Number Plate Recognition system. OCR (Optical Character Recognition) scheme is also applied in this for reading the image of vehicle number plate. Number Plate Recognition system is used for many purposes like tollway authorities uses this system for allowing the vehicle to enter the toll road by detecting their number plate automatically and provide them with pay-slip and then open the road for that particular car. Parking authorities also use this system for allowing the vehicle to park in their area. In this system, firstly we capture the image of number plate then process it and read each and every character present in the number plate for their perfect recognition. The most significant phase is OCR, where the letterings on the image of number plate are changed into the texts which can be decoded later. project proves that a deep learning-based ANPR system can be both efficient and scalable, capable of identifying vehicle number plates with high accuracy under various conditions, including different lighting and angles. The automation leads to reduced traffic congestion, minimized human errors, and improved operational efficiency in toll collection. Once the toll payment is successfully processed, a confirmation email will be automatically sent to the user's registered email address
